We use this (singular) and these (plural) as pronouns -near:
We use that (singular) and those (plural) -far :
We use you to talk about people in general including the speaker and the hearer:
If we have no other subject we use there or it.
We use subject pronouns as subject of the verb:

I like your dress.
 We use object pronouns:

• as the object of the verb:

Can you help me please?

We use one (singular) and ones (plural) to avoid unnecessary repetition.

Singular: 	myself - yourself - himself - herself - itself
Plural: 	ourselves - yourselves - themselves

each other refers to two people and one another refers to more than two people.
We use who and whom for people, and which for things.
Or we can use that for people or things.
We use "which" as a determiner to ask a question about a specific group of people or things:
When we are asking a general question we use "what" as a determiner:


The definite article the is the most frequent word in English.
The Pope is visiting Russia.

We use adjectives to describe nouns.

Most adjectives can be used in front of a noun…:

They have a beautiful house.

We use than when we want to compare one thing with another:

She is two years older than me.

We use words like very, really and extremely to make adjectives stronger:

It’s a very interesting story

Mitigators are the opposite of intensifiers. When we want to make an adjective less strong we use these words:

fairly - rather - quite
The film wasn’t great but it was quite exciting.

If an adjective ends in –ly we use the phrase in a …. way to express manner:

Silly > He behaved in a silly way.

use of at:clock times,mealtime
in:season,month,day
on:day,dates

We use the adverb ago with the past simple to say how long before the time of speaking something happened:

I saw Jim about three weeks ago.

We use for to say how long:

We have been waiting for twenty minutes.

We use from …to/until to say when something starts and finishes:

They stayed with us from Monday to Friday
already, still, yet and no longer

We use adverbials of probability to show how certain we are about something. The most frequent adverbials of probability are:

certainly - definitely - maybe - possibly
clearly - obviously - perhaps - probably

comparitive adverbs:much - far - a lot - quite a lot - a great deal - a good deal - a good bit - a fair bit
